[MUSIC]
Hello and welcome to another episode and no such thing as a fish, a weekly podcast.
This week coming to you from the Soho Theatre in Central London.
My name is Dan Schreiber and sitting here with Andy Murray, James Harkin,
and Anichesinsky. And once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days.
And in no particular order, here we go. Anna.
My fact this week is that the son of the man who invented shredded wheat was also an inventor.
He invented round shredded wheat.
[LAUGHTER]
That was... That was what he did.
What's he an inventor? [LAUGHTER]
He actually called himself an inventor.
So he wrote a letter to Time magazine, I think, in the 1920s about his father and growing up on his father's influence.
I grew up on the influence of my father's enthusiasm. He works in every department of his shredded wheat factory.
And that actually became an inventor myself, made some inventions of my own.
In 1920, I invented muffits. And if you look at muffits, they are shredded wheat but round.
Do you think, all the time, he was working in this factory, he was just totting.
Every time he saw a square or a rectangular one, he's like, "Oh, for God's sake."
He got it all wrong!
He had an idea, but which was the shapes.
Triangle, no.
[LAUGHTER]
So, Decahedron, no.
To complicate it.
[LAUGHTER]
One other thing he invented was symmetrical text or a symmetrical font.
Do you know about this?
No.
This is amazing. It's a great idea.
So you have all the letters from A to Z, but you can read them all back to front as well.
So A is easy because that always looks that way.
But then B, he kind of had a line on both sides, so you could read it from left to right and right to left.
And that was his idea.
He thought it was too much of trouble to read from left to right and then go to the next line and read from left to right again.
And he thought you could write that way and then just go down and write that way and then go down and write that way.
That's awesome.
Cutting corners again.
[LAUGHTER]
I've seen the text and it is terrible.
It's a horrible idea.
But there was actually an old way of writing that monks did back in the day, back in the Middle Ages.
It was called 'Bustophagon' and it meant, as oxen turned when plowing.
And the idea is you write from left to right and then you rotate the page.
And so then you read from left to right to left, but you've turned it upside down and so you read it the right way again.
And they used to write like that, loads of there are manuscripts written like that.
Why?
Sorry to ask you.
[LAUGHTER]
Silly question.
I think, again, it's kind of cutting corners because then you don't have to lift your pen from the page.
Have we said the name of the shreddies father and son yet?
No, no.
And the son was called Scott H. Perky and the father was called Henry Drushel Perky.
Yes.
Good names.
Henry and Perky.
Yeah.
And Henry invented shredded wheat to cure his, either diarrhea or constipation.
It was also very on that.
But, yeah, he had, it was a dyspeptic and he decided that there needed to be something he could eat that wasn't bread.
It was a bread replacement, shredded wheat.
At the beginning he was supposed to eat it with a poached egg on top or with like, it was to be spread on.
It was like a bread.
Right.
The family actually put out cookbooks which had different recipes for shredded wheat.
And a lot of them were savoring not just for breakfast.
And they also had a cereal restaurant.
They had loads of dishes and they weren't all just shredded wheat.
They had other things as well.
One of them was shredded meat inside shredded wheat.
Oh.
That is so horrible.
There was shredded wheat ice cream, wasn't there?
What?
His restaurant.
And the restaurant was over in Niagara Falls.
It sounds amazing how this roof garden is first shredded wheat restaurant.
Shredded wheat ice cream and a shredded wheat drink, which sounds terrible.
It's just, I mean, pulverized wheat, I guess.
They also have roast turkey stuffed with shredded wheat.
Yeah.
I'm really into the idea of just relative combos where they do the same career.
I feel like we definitely live in an age where actors and musicians were seeing their children come up and doing the same thing.
But when you get inventors, it's so much better.
My favorite family of all time, I have to say, in terms of what they've done, the Picard family.
Do you know the Picard family?
Yeah, but it kind of, it's putting down your own family a little bit.
Why do you say, this is my favorite family?
It's not what you say, all the Christmas dinner.
It's like, you guys are great, but, you know, sorry, Mum, Dad.
Yeah, no, the Picard's incredible.
So August Picard was the first person to travel basically to the closest point of space in a balloon.
And then his son was Jacques Picard, who went to the bottom of the ocean to the Marianas branch.
Well, and then his son was Jean-Luc Picard.
And he went boldly into it, yeah.
No, his son was Bertrand Picard, who was the first person to go non-stop in a balloon completely around the planet.
So in three generations, they went up, down, and around.
There's a Picard right now at a dinner table who's like 18 going, what the fuck am I going to be doing?
I like, so I like father's son combinations as well.
Do you know what Einstein's son was quite high achieving?
Yeah, yeah, he was. Do you know what he was most famous for?
I think Einstein's son.
Well, let's be honest.
And in second.
Okay, in second place, he was a leading figure in the field of sediment transport.
In the small fields of sediment transport.
I think that's why most people know of him, Hans.
Where's that? They've said he wrote the defining paper on sediment transport.
He did, it was called--
So the defining paper of three.
Sorry, I'm not leading in any field, so I'm putting this guy down.
What was it? What was it called?
It was called bed load transport as a probability problem.
He was very successful, but yeah, not as widely known, I guess.
And then there was Randolph Churchill, who before Winston, his dad, became Prime Minister, announced his parents,
I'm going to be Prime Minister one day, and then his dad was instead, and he was rubbish.
Tried to join Parliament, eventually did.
Even his own dad wouldn't have him in his war cabinet, I don't think, but he--
No, no.
It's not a father and son, but my favourite grandfather, grandson, is you and your own grandfather?
No, it's not. Pickard and pickard.
It's Dick Van Dyke, and his grandson Shane Van Dyke, because Dick Van Dyke did everything to make his family.
And then he has a whole family who got into movies and TV as well, and they did everything they could to bring them into whatever they wanted to do.
Silver spoon kind of thing. And they said to Shane Van Dyke, you want to be a director, you want to be a writer and actor?
What would you like to do? And he said, I have a project that I would like to make.
It's called Titanic 2.
Has anyone seen Titanic 2? Basically, the story behind Titanic 2, and bear in mind that Shane Van Dyke wrote this,
Titanic 2 set 100 years after the launch of the original Titanic.
They decide that they're going to take the exact same course, but this time, no icebergs.
They're like, if we see them, we're going to move. That's like they say that in the movie, right?
That's good thinking.
Yeah, they're like, definitely we're still in clear of those.
I don't think so when the Titanic launched, it wasn't like you see a iceberg, you make a beat line.
You have to face icebergs down.
They're more afraid of you than you are.
90% of iceberg judges are bluffs.
So Titanic 2 is making its way through the ocean, and they get word from back home that an ice shelf in the distance has collapsed.
And it sends a tsunami towards Titanic 2.
But here's the thing, they radio Titanic 2, and they say, "Good news guys, the tsunami's not big enough to take you down. You're fine."
But what they didn't count on is the fact that the tsunami was big enough to carry on it like surfers icebergs,
which it then slams into Titanic 2.
Titanic 2 then goes down, one person survives, spoiler alert.
That's line ever in a movie as well. The captain, who was like this will never happen again,
leaves the cabin, he turns to his entire crew after it's been hit and it's going down and goes, "Looks like history just repeated itself."
Yeah, Shane Van Dyke, what a dude!
I think we should talk about breakfast.
Oh yes, I do. Have you got something?
I think you have as well.
Yeah, I do. So there was a study at Tel Aviv University that found that eating chocolate cake for breakfast was good for losing weight, which is good.
They looked at 193 obese people over 32 weeks, and they all had different diets, and some of them had a 600 calorie breakfast, including a chocolate cake,
and these people lost more weight than those who didn't have the chocolate cake.
Really?
Yeah, that's good, it's good.
And the idea is that if you have sweet things at breakfast, you're less likely to want them throughout the rest of the day.
No, it's not just because there's no chocolate cake left, won't it?
On sugary breakfast cereal.
Oh yeah.
So the first ever sugared cereal was called Ranger Joe Popped Wheat Honys, fine.
And the man who designed it designed it to actually lower children's sugar consumption, because he said if I make a very slightly sugary breakfast cereal,
then children won't put lots of sugar on their own breakfast cereal.
It's not going to work.
Well, no, it didn't work.
I think the highest ever was sugar smacks.
Has anyone ever heard of these?
Has anyone ever heard of how one?
Really?
They contain sugar and smacks.
Yeah.
That was the worst.
That was a test the police were in, and I had been taking notes.
But it meant you put less smack on your self, didn't it?
No, it didn't, that was the theory, and it didn't work.
I didn't just end up having more smack.
Sugar smacks are 56% sugar.
So I was looking at cereals, anyway, breakfast stuff.
And there was one cereal, Kix cereal, which might exist in America, K-I-X, which in 1947 won atomic bombs and atomic energy were quite fashionable.
It released an atomic ring as one of the free gifts that came with the cereal packet.
It was atomic bombing. It contained polonium that glowed.
It was a atomic bomb.
It contained polonium.
It made it very clear on the packaging.
I should be clear in case they sue me that it was perfectly safe for capital letters on the packaging.
I think you've got a problem when you have to put perfectly safe and massive letters on it.
I will check this out. There was a chocolate that you could get in Germany in the 1930s.
And this is what it was called, radium chocolate, that quickly went off the block.
Highly radioactive chocolate, which came with the slogan, eat this and feel great.
You know, great, Tony the Tiger, the Frosty's thing.
This is really cool. The man who voiced Tony the Tiger for 50 years.
He wasn't the first one, but he was by a long way the longest to do it.
He's called Thirl Ravenscroft. He flew Winston Churchill as a pilot.
Really?
Because he was a civilian pilot navigated during the whole second mob war.
And he flew Winston Churchill, Bob Hope. He flew to meet the troops.
And he was great.
And he was the one who said great.
When you look it up, this is genuinely on the Wikipedia on Frosty's.
Tony, that promise.
Tony the Tiger has been the mascot of Frosty Flakes since its introduction.
Tony is known for uttering the cereal slogan.
They're great brackets pronounced as one elongated word, not a stutter.
[laughter]
I saw a Wikipedia page on snap, crackle and pop.
You know, these guys from the, what are they from?
Rice Krispie, that's it.
And they explained what they do.
They said snap is always portrayed with a baker's hat.
Pop with a military cap and uniform of a marching band leader.
Crackle's red or striped stocking cap leaves his occupation ambiguous.
[laughter]
We've said before I think that Kellogg, John Harvey Kellogg, invented Corn Flakes as part of a health drive,
which in a big bit of that was an anti-masturbation drive,
because he believed that he actually spent his wedding night writing an anti-masturbation tract.
Amazing.
Sure, if he doesn't need it anymore.
[laughter]
He wrote of masturbators, chronic or otherwise.
He said it killed you.
He said such a victim dies literally by his own hand.
[laughter]
Guys, we need to move on to our hands.
By the way, should we do that?
You got anything else you want to add?
Okay.
Okay, time for fact number two.
And that is Andrew Hunter Murray.
My fact is that in the 1960s, a Canadian psychologist visited cafes across the world
counting how much couples touched each other.
In Puerto Rico, it was 180 times in an hour.
In Paris, it was 110.
In London, it was zero.
[laughter]
I worked out whether it was romantic couples.
I think it was just people who were impairs in cafes,
so it could be friends or family or anything.
Yeah.
But I'm not British.
Is that seen as a very...
I see a lot of touching words.
Well, this was in the 1960s, so things were different.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, they miss you uptight in the 1960s.
[laughter]
The brutal 60s, as they were called.
I like, do you guys know about Nutsford in Cheshire?
The campaign that it ran at the end of last year, I think,
to widen its pavements, because...
No.
So it's finally been agreed that Nutsford in Cheshire
is going to widen its pavements so that two people can walk along it.
And the reason two people can't walk along it is because there was this spinster
called Lady James Stanley, who in the 19th century, she lived in Nutsford,
and she dictated that couples shouldn't be allowed to walk along the pavements hand in hand.
And so she funded the building of all the pavements in Nutsford
and made sure that only one person at night would walk away.
[laughter]
Wow.
Her Ebertaph reads, "A maid I lived and a maid I died,
I never was asked and never denied."
Oh.
No, she sounds horrible.
Why do you think she was never asked?
Why did she not like people walking, so by say?
Was it because she couldn't get around them, or she just didn't like the affection of her?
She was offended by the idea of...
She just liked holding hands.
[laughter]
She got a kick at a single file.
No, she didn't. She objected because she was alone.
She was a single file.
[laughter]
Sorry.
So yeah, touching.
Social touching and all kinds of touching.
Touching is amazing.
I should say this fact comes from a book called Touch the Science of Hand Heart and Mind
by David J. Linden.
And I think it's a very interesting book.
There are so many cool things.
So there are some people who don't feel pain.
Oh.
So there are people in a place called Norbotten,
probably pronouncing that wrong, which is in Sweden.
And it's genetic.
The reason that some people don't feel pain.
So some people are born without that ability.
And one of the people studied in this book is a girl called Camilla.
At the age of nine, I'm quoting here,
she would entertain her friends by jumping off her bed and landing directly on her knees.
[laughter]
She said she'd like to hear the crunching sound they made just like popcorn.
Wow.
I think the other problem with people who have this genetic problem is that they
they would die early, wouldn't they?
Yes, because you don't know.
You put your hand in the fire and you just wouldn't know that it's not.
So basically touch is vital.
And for babies as well, if they don't experience a parent touching them,
then it's extremely bad for them and you can get all kinds of conditions that way.
We're not sure how.
But Adolf Hitler didn't like touching.
Did you like anything?
I'm starting to really dislike this guy.
For me, this was the final straw.
This is Martin Amos's claim recently that Adolf Hitler and even Braun had sex
without touching each other or even removing their clothes.
How does that even work?
I see me like the necessary parts touched but he kept it to an absolute minimum.
He hated going to the tailor because tailors, you know, they have to touch you.
A badger being Adolf Hitler's tailor, oh my gosh.
I read about this in the international business times.
And the way it reported it was, it was saying about the recent claims that have come out
that he had sex without touching even Braun.
And I said, well, Hitler's already tarnished reputation.
Was further question.
Wow.
So if you touch someone, they're going to trust you more, apparently.
That's the thing, isn't it?
They'll do it.
Richard Weisman did a study on this and found that when you asked someone on a date
and you were touching them at the same time, they were 20% more likely to offer...
A dance in a nightclub, 20% more likely to accept that.
And 10% increase on people giving their telephone number to a stranger in the streets.
Just from touching them.
Does it make any difference where you touch them?
I think further research is required.
Does you, apparently, I just struggled to believe this because I cannot empathise with it.
But as a salesperson, if you touch people, you're about 20% more likely to make a sale.
If you touch them on the arm, we're trying to find incredibly creepy.
Yeah, just a light touch on the arm, but it's culturally specific.
So they've tried these experiments and getting people to sign a petition in the street.
It goes from 55% to 80% of people signing it.
However, not in Poland, where you're like a Polish man.
Because Polish men react very, very badly to being touched lightly on the arm.
A study in Poland found this.
They found that people are less likely to sign the petition.
I've never been able to access the Polish part of myself.
Maybe that's what it is.
It's the skin.
There seems to be a lot of controversy in the papers when I was putting in.
I just wanted to see what Britain and touching certain people in Britain.
And apparently the queen is someone you definitely should not touch.
You like the queen, haven't you done?
I've touched the queen.
Yes, I met the queen.
No, I did.
It's not meant to.
It sounds like you knew it and you did it anyway.
Just back to her face as I touched her.
Where did you touch her?
Her hand.
We shook hands.
But yeah, because I'm an Australian.
And the Labour PM, Paul Keating, he was not current.
Yeah, yeah.
He touched the queen on her lower back, which a number of people have done.
And it's always led to massive controversy.
And the tabloids went insane.
And they called him the lizard of Oz.
The tabloids then recommended that all Australian expats be sent back to Australia.
Clive James included.
Because they ruined their chance.
It is a peculiarly sleazy feeling.
Someone touching your lower back.
I mean, I can understand trying to extradite every member of the nationality of the country.
Other people you're not allowed to touch the Thai royal family.
You weren't allowed to touch them traditionally.
And there was a Thai queen who drowned after falling from a boat.
This was in 1880 because onlookers were too scared to touch her.
And so she drowned.
No way.
That's bad, isn't it?
I mean, they probably didn't like it very much either.
I do, yeah.
Because even if I was supposed to, you know, not touch someone.
If they were drowning, I think I'd help.
Yeah.
Well, the law says that you'd be put to death if you did touch them.
Put a death.
Oh, OK.
In Tonga, the undertakers who look after the king are not supposed to use their hands for three months
after touching their dead body of the king.
But that's better than it used to be.
Because 300 years ago, they would have their hands chopped off.
Wow.
And a bit undertaking courses were not popular in the country for a day.
So you can't use your hands for three months, you have to explain this.
But these days, you would be put into a nice house and looked after for three months.
So it's actually quite good these days.
We're going to have to move on.
I just got one more thing, which I think is really interesting.
Things you can touch.
Something you can't touch is the papers of Mary Curie.
They're still so radioactive that you have to put on a full body suit
in order to look at the papers that are talking about the subject itself.
That's insane.
I'm on touching in the US.
There's been a campaign in US schools recently to limit touching between people.
I'm just between peoples, because girls often hug each other, I think.
So there was a complaint by a head teacher saying that girls having been separated for 40 minutes,
gone to different lessons.
We'll have to all hug each other in the corridors and it was clogging up the corridors.
So there was a campaign in a school in Iowa, I think it was,
which was the hands-off or handshake campaign, which apparently was genuinely successful.
Which was saying to girls, you cannot have to hug each other every 40 minutes.
Maybe just a handshake.
And now girls in this school go down the corridor, see they're giving them a handshake.
And that's not done.
That's good.
That's very much like 1960's Britain.
How do you do?
Oh, I shook so many people's hands last night.
We really need to move on.
Okay, time to move on to fact number three and that is James.
Okay, my fact this week is that in a very particular time and place in history,
you could avoid castration by shouting the word "soho".
But just to be safe, always do it.
Everywhere.
Is the time and place here and now.
We've asked the star what do you mean in time and place?
Yeah, it's not in "soho" itself, which is where we are today.
And this is an Ashanti laugh from the 18th and 19th century that said
that if someone saw a member of the chief's harem naked, then he'd be castrated.
And so if one of his attendants needed to go into the harem,
he would shout out "soho", "soho" and the ladies would get dressed
and so he wouldn't see them naked and he wouldn't get castrated.
Is it a shanty?
A shanty, yeah, which is where?
They are going to Ghanaian and they're part of the A-can group of tribes.
So if you really had a grudge against a guy and you're a woman,
you just leave your clothes off.
He's seen you naked, he gets castrated.
That'll do it.
Wow.
Tough.
Yeah.
Puffer.
So the Ashanti laugh was it would punish acts that were hateful to the tribe
because they believed that their ancestors would come back and punish the whole tribe
if they did anything that was bad.
And also they thought that one of the most severe punishments that they had was ridicule.
And there was a proverb that was, if it was a choice between disgrace and death, then take death.
So ridicule was the worst thing that could happen to you.
Although castration sounds a bit worse.
They always shook hands because we sort of took my hand shaking.
They always shook hands with the left hand, didn't they?
Because that was the hand that you held your shield in.
And so it signifies the fact that you don't feel and need to defend yourself against them.
That's true.
And Baden Powell was a big fan of the Ashanti.
And that's why Boy Scouts were traditionally supposed to shake with the left hand
because he liked the Ashanti so much.
I saw some amazing footage eight years and years ago of David Attenborough
when he was making a series called Zoo Quest.
I think it was the Zoo Quest series.
It was this one episode where he was going into a territory
so that he had a group of people guiding him around of a certain tribe.
And they stopped at this hill and they said, we're not going any further
because the tribe that are over there are quite warlike
and we don't want to get into this territory.
And Adamborough was like, okay, you guys stay back.
Me and the camera guys are going to go forward.
And they have this on camera.
Attenborough is walking over this hill when suddenly this warring tribe
comes running over the hill towards him.
And they just come, like yelling and they're going, like just war yells basically,
running towards him.
And he has no idea what to do.
He's panicked into a standstill silence.
And literally as they approach him, the only thing he can think to do
is to walk forward, put his hand out to shake and says, how do you do?
Yes!
And then it turned out that that was their way of greeting you by intimidating you.
It's like a great practical joke on that.
And they came and you see the guy going, oh, and then it shakes Adamborough's hand.
But it's the most British thing I've ever seen in my life.
Literally on the brink of death.
How do you do?
It's drawn there.
This is completely unrighteous and subject matter, but on David Attenborough.
You know, he's the only person who's won a BAFTA in black and white colour,
3D and HD and some other weird thing called 4X or something.
And there's 5 to 4.
That's when he's literally massaging you.
5 formats, he's got that.
That's very cool.
It's impressive.
He's old.
So the Ashanti...
That's what I'm telling you.
That is practice.
So the Ashanti are famous for their golden stool.
Yes.
This was the throne of the Ashanti people.
It's quite small stool.
And it's so important to them that it's never allowed to touch the ground,
so it has its own chair.
So it's like a stool on top of the throne, which is pretty cool.
It's not what...
Sorry.
I read that the legend comes from the fact that the golden stool started
in the 17th century in modern-day Ghana,
when it came down from the heavens and landed on the king's lap,
which seems like such a strange thing.
It's sitting on him.
That's how good it is.
It sits on you.
But it caused the war of the golden stool, didn't it?
That's right.
I think we caused the war of the golden stool.
Well, some blame the stool, some blame...
The negotiations broke down.
This was when it was classic British colonialism.
When the governor of the Gold Coast, as it was at the time,
who was called Frederick Hodgson,
heard about this golden stool thing,
and demanded to be allowed to sit on it,
because he said, you know, the queen is your ruler.
Where is the golden stool?
Why am I not sitting on the golden stool at this moment?
I'm the representative of the paramount power in this country.
Why have you relegated me to a non-Golden stool chair?
And so then the quote I read was,
"The chiefs listened in silence,
and then went home to prepare for war."
(Laughter)
Quite right, too, I think.
Yeah.
The current king of the Ashanti
is a man called Atumfur,
I say, Tutu II,
and he is qualified in accountancy
for the public administration.
Which actually is a really good thing for a king to be qualified in.
Yeah.
He studied at Killburn Polytechnic.
(Laughter)
Did he?
Yeah.
And he has a doctorate from London Metropolitan University,
which is where he did the public administration bit.
I've got some Soho facts,
but like Soho is in where we're recording tonight.
Yeah, I've got one.
Well, I say I've got some, I've got one.
(Laughter)
It's going to be good.
But it's on the very street that we're on, Dean Street,
where there's a pizza express up the road.
And before there was the pizza express there,
there used to be an ear hospital,
and it was the very first ear hospital
in the UK,
something in all of Europe,
no one had done it before.
And it was run by a guy called John Curtis.
He was a bit of a charlatan.
He used to do this thing,
where he would try to convince the patient that he'd cured them,
and made their hearing better.
So they'd come and go,
"Oh, I'm having trouble hearing."
And then he would go, "Okay, we'll listen to this clock."
And he'd have a silent clock.
And they'd be like, "I can't hear anything."
And then he'd get some hot water in a syringe,
and he would put it in their ear.
And while they were doing that to their ear,
he'd get his other clock,
which made a noise.
He went, "What about now?"
And they'd go, "I can hear anyone. I cured you."
They'd go off.
But that only works for people who can actually hear,
who don't have hearing problems in the first place, right?
Yeah.
But apparently,
this one ear hospital has now expanded
into what would become great ear hospitals,
so it actually turned into a great ear.
Yeah, so do you mind his dubiousness?
A little bit south of here.
There's a nose hospital,
and then way further down,
there's a throat hospital.
I'm sorry.
So where on the Soho Theatre is 21 Dean Street,
and apparently Mozart played in this building,
or in what this building was.
Maybe a seven-year-old Mozart played the harpsichord,
accompanied by his four-year-old system.
Wait, a seven-year-old Mozart.
How many...
Really?
He did.
That's about it.
Apparently, yeah.
Wow.
Oh, yeah.
According to the websites of this very company.
Right.
Apparently,
Mulberry cigarettes as well.
They started selling and manufacturing cigarettes
on Great Mulberry Street.
Oh, right.
And Mulberry, no, no.
It was the name, and then they removed the "U" at the end,
because they thought that's not as sexy a look as a thing.
And on top of it, they were lady cigarettes.
They weren't for men.
Wow.
Yeah, they were...
Mulberry.
It's not for men.
No, genuinely.
They all started up.
They were for women.
And because it was at a point where women were encouraged
to start smoking cigarettes.
Which, if you've ever seen an Adam Curtis documentary,
what was it called, "The Power of Nightmares"?
It's where he shows where one person,
who was a grandson, I think, of Sigmund Freud,
convinced the entire world.
Because at that point only men smoke cigarettes.
And they called them flame...
What was it?
I don't remember.
Sticks of liberty, flames of awesomeness,
of some liberty, liberty tortures, or some liberty tortures,
something like that.
So Mulberry was a...
And that was just down the road.
Oh, cool.
And he is the man who invented Egg's and Bacon for breakfast.
Oh, that's true.
He was the father of PR.
And the father of good health.
Yeah.
And his son invented round Egg's and Bacon.
So...
Arthur...
Um...
I think a theatre...
The Great Wimble Theatre, in Soho,
was the only theatre not to close down during World War II,
to spot the war if it wasn't it,
because it was an exotic dancing slash naked.
What do you call this?
It's a place where there are naked women in strip clubs.
Sticks, please.
Yeah.
It was that.
And it was decided that it was too important
to sacrifice for the cause of war.
So the Great Wimble Theatre, yeah.
It is no longer a strip club if you're going there.
I'm pretty sure.
I think it's just a theatre now.
Cool.
I think it is.
You think it's still a strip club?
I think so.
Look at him, I think.
Otherwise, I was a very avant-garde player.
I mean, there was no plot whatsoever.
So the start of this fact was about safe words,
because it's something to say to make sure you don't get castrated.
And I went up...
Which is what a safe word is, right?
Yeah.
Well, to be honest, I wasn't sure.
So I went up Wikipedia, safe words.
And they said, "In theory, a safe word is usually a word
that a person would not ordinarily say during sex,
such as, "Pide Apple, the Loser Raptor, or Lindsay Lowe."
Oh my god.
And then another one, this is really great.
It's the next paragraph.
It says, "Since a scene may become too intense for a submissive partner
to remember what a safe word is, in practice,
commonly the word safe word is used as a safe word."
Wow.
I'm going to have to move us on.
We've got to press on.
I know.
It's a change.
Okay, time for our final facts of the evening.
That's my fact.
My fact is that Matthew Ricard, the man who's labeled
"the happiest man in the world," is unhappy.
People call him that.
(Laughter)
This is by science.
They said you were the happiest man alive.
He's a Buddhist.
By science.
Sorry.
Scientists' science.
I'm hit by Captain Science.
Basically, they were doing this massive survey
on trying to find out about happiness.
And he was one of the people that they did these experiments
on hundreds of people.
And he literally, they register no negativity in him whatsoever.
He just loved everything.
Until they said, "You're the happiest man in the world."
He's like, "Fuck sake."
(Laughter)
What's meant?
Yeah, apparently.
I mean, I've not read it in a proper interview with him
that he is unhappy about it except for this book called Talk Like Ted.
It's a new book that's out.
And in it, she says that he's really unhappy about it.
Okay, they did this test, and they tested the happiness by a metric thing.
So, plus 0.3 was the most miserable on this scale they had.
Minus 0.3 was meant to be extremely happy people.
And he scored minus 0.45.
Isn't that cool?
He's off the charts.
Yeah.
He said he's not the most annoying person on the planet.
(Laughter)
That is Anna plus 0.45.
He said when he was asked if he ever gets annoyed, he said,
"Of course I sometimes get irritated, but I usually start laughing quite quickly at the irritation
because it's so silly, which sounds like incredibly annoying response."
He's surrounded by the unhappiest people in the world.
I also saw an interview with him when someone asked him about a laptop that he had stolen.
And they said, "Did that not make you unhappy at least?"
He said, "I didn't feel aggrieved at all.
My only regret was that he hadn't been able to send a thief the power lead."
Bullshit.
(Laughter)
No one can be that happy.
It's impossible, but he's like a Buddhist guy, right?
He says meditation is the main thing.
He's the Dalai Lama's right hand man, I believe.
Oh, yeah, really?
I saw an interview where they talked about the Dalai Lama and someone asked him,
"Does he watch the Marx brothers?
Does the Dalai Lama watch the Marx brothers?"
And this guy, Rikar, said, "He doesn't have to.
His life is so full of humour."
Although I think he used to watch "Mash."
(Laughter)
That's TV show ever.
Yeah, well, that's the Dalai Lama.
That doesn't think it's that funny.
There's a good so, as we say, Buddhism is a thing that really focuses on a thing.
A religion that really focuses on China, a chief happiness.
And in Bhutan, obviously, a Buddhist country.
All new government policies have to have a growth national happiness assessment.
So every policy that's made has to be run through the,
"Is this going to cause growth national happiness rings?"
In order to establish, which is so cool.
And so they're really happy country.
They're one of the poorest countries in the world.
And yet, they're about number eight on the global happiness index.
Number eight.
I think they're about, there are so many lists of the happiest countries in the world.
Usually it's Costa Rica, number one, isn't it?
Denmark, usually, I think.
But Panama recently overtook them.
Today, you've been to Bhutan.
I have.
Nice.
They're just all so bloody happy.
Do they announce the happiest country at an actual award ceremony?
Because I'd love to see the camera pan across everyone's face.
When they point out it's not there.
Bhutan, I think they're so happy because they have a dragon king.
How will happy would be if we called our queen the dragon queen?
That's what they call them.
He actually went to school in England as well.
Yes, Gilbert Polytechnic.
He's called Wangchuk.
He is?
Yeah.
You've been funny about that?
And he's the last in the Wangchuk dynasty so far.
There's been like four or five Wangchuk.
He's not been able to find anyone to take his name.
He's got seven sons.
All of them.
No, I'm Smith.
Also, Bhutan has no traffic lights, does it?
Which may be the happiest country in the world.
It's the traffic lights and the dragon king thing.
And they pledge to be a carbon sink forever.
Yeah.
So be a net absorber of carbon.
They did use to have one traffic lights in the centre of Timpoot.
It's near the golf course, if you want to know where.
You've been, you've been, haven't you?
I play golf there, yeah.
But the place where they put the traffic lights there and everyone got so upset by the traffic lights.
They got rid of them and now there's just a guy there the whole time who's doing the job of the traffic lights.
Because they thought it was too impersonal.
Yeah.
Because they're so happy, happy.
They need a human to be doing their traffic lighting for them.
I've done karaoke in Bhutan as well, actually, with a load of monks.
No.
Wow.
That's another story.
What is it?
No.
You don't get on the hook very easily, yeah.
What did you sing?
I can't remember.
It was some, like, I think I sang some Bhutanese.
Because I'm happy coming.
That's, yeah, that's all they sing for Elle William.
Yeah.
Keep the points up.
Look, it's coming down.
That's the rick as I heard.
Come on.
Oh, it's working.
Supposedly, but as teaching, there are 84,000 negative emotions.
Really?
Yeah.
And there are also, there are 87,000 drinks combinations at Starbucks.
Coincidence?
It can't be.
Perfect.
That's like, how many different types of smile are there?
There are something like 18 different types of smile on there.
And there's only one of those 18 that makes, that is a genuine smile of happiness.
I'm sorry.
I have to share the smile, right?
Yeah.
The mouth smile.
I'm out.
There's a Pan American smile.
Yeah.
And that was air hostesses from back in the '50s.
Just fake, fake with the mouth only.
Yeah.
But it became, it was such a big thing, wasn't it?
It was the classic, on the side of planes, they would have the classic air hostesses of the '50s look.
And it was the fake smile.
Yeah.
I don't know if that's one of the 19 or 18.
Hey, almost certainly.
I think it is.
And the best one is the Duchenne smile.
And that's one you can tell by the eyes because it's the wrinkles around the eyes.
Like, you know, there's a real smile.
And that's probably why.
So there are a lot, there's a lot of data about how the older you get the happier you get.
And it's just because people have got wrinkled eyes when they're older.
Because it is the happiness index goes up and like right into your '80s.
But it goes down until you're mid-40s.
Yes, it does.
Because that's the least happy.
And then from then on, it's all upwards.
Which means the graph looks a bit like a smile.
All right, Mathieu Ricard.
Oh, by the way, Mathieu Ricard has on his website.
Did you guys look on his website?
His website has a few features.
My favorite feature is smile of the week.
And it's just a different monk every week.
It's having a good old smile.
It's actually really nice to look at.
If he's not happy about the happy thing, he's bringing on himself.
If he's doing a smile of the week website, I think.
Yeah.
He's been celibate since he was 30.
He has a little counter on his website.
[LAUGHTER]
Do Shen used to, as well as discovering the one smile that is a true smile,
he's the electrocute, different men to people's faces to create different expressions.
Didn't need to work out what different expressions meant.
And it's so funny.
And because it was in, it was the mid to late 19th century.
Because it was the age of photography as well.
He combined the two.
And he just took loads of photos of these patients making mental expressions.
Because he was electrocuting them.
These people were going like.
[LAUGHTER]
Yeah, it's kind of mean.
That's kind of mean.
Yeah.
I just got a flash.
We're going to have to wrap up.
That man.
Yeah, that's what that was.
Do we have any final facts that you want to chuck in?
OK.
Well, Hitachi has come up with a happiness algorithm.
You put a badge on your shirt.
And there's an accelerometer on there, which measures your activity.
And it means that the boss of a company can tell how happy everyone is in the company.
I can adjust things accordingly.
Oh, Brave New World.
Yeah.
I got one last thing, which is that I was looking into just when I was doing the research.
I thought, science has labeled this person the something in the world.
Oh, yeah.
And I only had one thing come up, which was the man with the largest penis.
I know.
Well, I don't know him.
[LAUGHTER]
It was just one night.
I know.
James, your eyes are watering.
[LAUGHTER]
No, he works as a data entry clerk in America, doesn't he?
I think.
Yeah.
Well, is he using to enter the data?
[LAUGHTER]
All right, we don't even have time for the fact.
That's it.
That's all of our facts.
Thank you so much for listening.
If you want to get in contact with any of us about the things that we've said in this podcast,
you can get us on our Twitter accounts.
I'm on @Sribaland.
James.
@egshaped.
Andy.
@AndrewHunterM.
You can email podcast@ky.com.
And we're going to be back again in the Soho Theatre next week.
And if you want to hear any previous episodes, this was our 51st episode.
There's 50 episodes online.
Thank you so much for being here tonight, guys.
Thank you to everyone listening.
And we'll see you again next week.
Have a good night.
Goodbye.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BLANK_AUDIO]